# Overview

This module provides gRPC entry point for Magento. Additionally, it provides possibility to expose gRPC APIs for other Magento modules

# Installation
* Install `rr-grpc` server - https://github.com/spiral/php-grpc. Put the binary in some directory registered in PATH system variable
* Install `protoc-gen-php-grpc` protoc plugin - https://github.com/spiral/php-grpc. Put the binary in some directory registered in PATH system variable.
* Install `protoc` (protocol compiler) - https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf#protocol-compiler-installation. Put the binary in some directory registered in PATH system variable
* `composer require magento/module-grpc:0.0.1`. Please make sure the package is present in packagist. Alternatively, connect the git repository.

# Usage
* Launch `/bin/magento proto:marshal` CLI command. The command is doing the following actions:
  * Scaffold protobuf classes and interfaces 
  * Creates unified protobuf messages and services (`magento.proto`)
  * Creates protoset file that could be used as a replacement for reflection API (`magento.protoset`)
  * Register services for later use in gRPC sever
* Launch `./vendor/bin/grpc-server` in Magento root. You can also use this file as a reference for your gRPC configuration.
* In case of any code changes repeat all steps from `Usage` section

# gRPC services development
* Declare your proto files in proto3 syntax. The tooling is able to find proto files in `/etc` directory of Magento modules.   
* Launch `/bin/magento proto:marshal` in order to get autogenerated interfaces and DTOs
* Implement interfaces generated by previous step in your module and add appropriate preferences to di.xml file
